_This is the assignment for the UCL CASA module Urban Simulation (CASA0002)_
_Code & data is hosted and availble at [Github](https://github.com/X-Fan-Jack/Study_Notes/tree/master/Coursework/CASA02)_

# Part 1: London’s underground resilience:
## I. Topological network:
In this section, the data of the London tube network in graphml format provided in the Practical of week 7 will be used.  The network model can be generated by using the data, only the topological relationships between nodes are considered, and the network is named as **_G_**.

### 1.1 Centrality measures:
Centrality measures of a network are used to measure the importance of nodes in the network in different aspects. These important aspects can include the influence of nodes in terms of information dissemination, control, influence, and connectivity. In this section, three measures will be used: Degree centrality, Closeness centrality and Betweenness centrality.    

_**Degree Centrality**_ (DC) is a commonly used centrality metric to measure the importance or centrality of nodes in a network. In London tube networks, degree centrality can be used to assess the interactivity of stations, i.e., the number of direct connections to other stations. DC measures the number of direct connections of a node in the network, i.e., the degree of the node. A higher degree of a node indicates more direct connections to other nodes and thus plays a more important role in the network.    
For a node $i$ in an undirected network, degree centrality can be calculated by the following equation:
$$C_{d}(i) = \frac{k_i}{N-1} $$
where $C_d(i)$ means the degree centrality of node $i$, $k_i$ denotes the number of degrees of node $i$ (i.e., the number of edges directly connected to node $i$), and $N$ means the total number of nodes in the network. 
Based on the network G, the DC ranking of each station in the London tube network can be calculated, and the top 10 of them are shown in the following table:
|No.|station_name|degree_centrality|
|--|--|--|
|1|King's Cross St. Pancras|0.016018|
|2|Baker Street|0.016018|
|3|Oxford Circus|0.013730|
|4|Green Park|0.013730|
|5|Bank|0.013730|
|6|Earl's Court|0.013730|
|7|Waterloo|0.013730|
|8|Turnham Green|0.011442|
|9|Canning Town (DLR)|0.011442|
|10|Liverpool Street|0.011442|


**_Closeness Centrality_** (CC) is a metric used to measure the closeness between nodes and other nodes in a network. Closeness centrality measures the average shortest path length from a node to other nodes, i.e., the average distance between a node and other nodes. A higher proximity centrality of a node indicates that the distance between the node and other nodes is shorter and the connection is tighter.  In the London tube network, Closeness centrality indicates the average shortest path of a station to other stations, and the higher the value, the shorter the journey to the rest of the stations in the network and the more important the station is.
For a node $i$ in an undirected network, closeness centrality can be calculated by the following equation:
$$C_{c}(i) = \frac{N-1}{ {\textstyle \sum_{j=1}^{N}} d(i,j)} $$  
where $C_c(i)$ means the closeness centrality of node i, $d(i,j)$ means the shortest path length from node $i$ to node $j$, and $N$ means the total number of nodes in the network.  
Based on the network G, the CC ranking of each station in the London tube network can be calculated, and the top 10 of them are shown in the following table:
|No.|station_name|closeness_centrality|
|--|--|--|
|1|Green Park|0.094897|
|2|Bond Street|0.093737|
|3|Westminster|0.093197|
|4|Baker Street|0.092900|
|5|Waterloo|0.092389|
|6|Bank|0.092000|
|7|Oxford Circus|0.091614|
|8|Liverpool Street|0.090010|
|9|Regent's Park|0.089275|
|10|Finchley Road|0.089165|

_**Betweenness Centrality**_ (BC) is used to measure the extent to which a node acts as a mediator in the network, i.e., how often a node is on the shortest path between connecting other nodes. Nodes with high betweenness centrality usually have strong information transfer and control capabilities in the network. The higher the betweenness centrality of a node, the more frequently the node acts as an intermediary in the network and plays an important role in the connectivity and information transfer of the network. In the London tube network, the value of betweenness centrality indicates the importance of the station as a transit station, and the higher the value, the more important the station is as a transit point. 
For a node $i$ in an undirected network, betweenness centrality can be calculated by the following equation: 
$$C_B(v) = \sum_{s,t \in V} \frac{\sigma(s, t|v)}{\sigma(s, t)}$$
where $C_B(v)$ means the betweenness centrality of node $i$. $V$ is the set of nodes. $\sigma(s, t)$ is the number of shortest $(s, t)$-paths, and $\sigma(s, t|v)$ is the number of those paths passing through some node $v$ other than $s,t$. if $s=t, \sigma(s, t)=1$ and if $v \in {s, t}, \sigma(s, t|v) = 0$.   
Based on the network G, the BC ranking of each station in the London tube network can be calculated, and the top 10 of them are shown in the following table:
|No.|station_name|betweenness_centrality|
|--|--|--|
|1|Baker Street|0.381015|
|2|Bethnal Green|0.353433|
|3|Finchley Road|0.336582|
|4|Bank|0.319563|
|5|Green Park|0.319552|
|6|Waterloo|0.317216|
|7|Liverpool Street|0.313026|
|8|Westminster|0.289962|
|9|Bond Street|0.258599|
|10|West Hampstead|0.236566|

### 1.2 Impact measures:

In order to measure the impact of station closure on the whole London tube network, this section will use two coefficients to evaluate the overall characteristics of the network. These two coefficients are: **_Average Clustering Coefficient_** and **_Degree Assortativity Coefficient_**.

**_Average clustering coefficient_** (ACC) reflects the average of the clustering coefficients of all nodes in the network. The clustering coefficient is a measure of how tightly connected a node is to its neighbors, and it measures the connectivity between a node's neighbors. For the London tube network, the neighbors of a station are the other stations adjacent to it, so the clustering coefficient reflects the degree of connectivity between stations in the subway network. The higher the average clustering coefficient, the tighter the connectivity between stations in the tube network.  

**_Degree assortativity coefficient_** (DAC) directly reflects the correlation between the degrees of nodes in the network, and indirectly reflects the structural characteristics of the network. For the London tube networks, if there is positive degree assortativity in the network, then neighboring stations are usually connected with similar number of other stations, forming a tightly connected community structure. On the contrary, if there is negative degree assortativity in the tube network, then adjacent stations are usually connected to other stations with widely varying numbers, forming a more dispersed structure.

By removing the nodes and recalculating the two coefficients, the network's resilience can be evaluated by the change of the two coefficients. If it remains unchanged or increases, it means that the network is more resilient, which means that the network is able to retain the original characteristics as much as possible. If the coefficients decreases, then it means that the network is not resilient in the corresponding metric, or the node has a greater impact on a network.   

These two measures can reflect the characteristics of the shape and clustering of the arbitrary network, which are not specific to the London tube network. For whether using these two metrics to evaluate the resilience of an arbitrary network will be significant, we need to consider factors such as the network's own characteristics. For example, if we are more concerned with the change in resilience of a network in terms of the degree of aggregation, then for an arbitrary network we would be more inclined to focus on the change in the average aggregation coefficient of that network as the nodes change.

### 1.3 Node removal:

<hr>

## II. Flows: weighted network:
### II.1. Old vs new measure:
### II.2. Impact measure with flows:
### III.3. Experiment with flows:

<hr>

# Part 2: Spatial Interaction models:
## III. Models and calibration:
### III.1
### III.2

<hr>

## IV. Scenarios
## IV.1
## IV.2
## IV.3
# Appendix
